---
title: 'Devlog 001 – Mantine & Migration from Tailwind CSS to CSS Modules'
date: 2026-01-02
tags: ['mini-crm', 'frontend']
---

# Devlog 001 – Mantine over custom components; Migrating from Tailwind CSS to CSS Modules

## Status

- Read the Mantine documentation.
- Installed all necessary **devDependencies**.
- Added **StyleLint** for CSS quality.
- Updated ESLint & Prettier configurations.
- Implemented the first Mantine component: a LanguagePicker for the `AuthLayout`.
- Started implementing `ControlledTextInput`, a component combining **React Hook Form** and Mantine’s `TextInput`.
- Improved the project's folder structure for better scalability.

## Problems / Challenges

- My folder structure was unclear at the beginning, but I was able to find a solid solution.
- It took me some time to get used to writing "standard" CSS again after using utility-first frameworks.

## Learnings

- **Decoupling translation functions from components:**

  - This allows me to reuse components in projects without `react-i18next`.
  - It improves the data flow: a raw string enters the component, and the UI is rendered.

- **Avoiding Factory Functions for Form Fields:**
  - I initially tried creating a factory function to improve reusability, but it turned out to be an anti-pattern.
  - Creating components via a factory creates new function references, which causes React to unmount and remount the entire tree on every render, leading to a complete **loss of input focus**.

## Next steps

- Continue migrating the remaining custom components to Mantine.
- Remove all Tailwind classes and replace them with **CSS Modules**.
