---
title: 'Devlog 002 – Backend error keys, field errors and frontend auth pages cleanup'
date: 2026-01-07
tags: ['mini-crm', 'frontend', 'backend']
---

# Devlog 002 – Backend error keys, field errors and frontend auth pages cleanup

The holidays are over, so I will start to ramp up my consistency again.

## Status

- Login page is done
- Registration via frontend is now possible
- Settled on dot notation for localization-keys

## Problems / Challenges

- Choosing the correct `Mantine` components takes some time; I constantly have to switch back and forth between the documentation and my code. Especially the correct use of the `Styles API`.

- I’ve had some issues with my backend error message keys. As this is my first self-written backend and my first time using Spring Boot, I want to avoid bloating the project. Therefore, I’ve decided not to implement localization on the backend and am looking for a clean workaround for error messages instead.

- Tried to implement field errors in my API responses but failed.

## Learnings

- **Polymorphic Components**

  - This was my first time encountering an implementation of polymorphic components. I learned that they do not automatically extend the HTML element props of the default element. If I need those native props, I have to create a wrapper component (which is the case when working with Mantine).

- I learned that Spring Boot throws a `MethodArgumentNotValidException` for Bean Validation. My next challenge is to figure out how to properly handle field errors within my `@RestControllerAdvice`.

## Next steps

- Finish the auth pages (following the "done is better than perfect" approach).
- Replace all existing components on the protected routes with `Mantine` components.
- Implement the `companies` feature to start displaying real data on the frontend.
